---
title: Event model
---

A single event model to support analytics, marketing, privacy and data science
needs.

## Entity-Action Approach

The Entity-Action approach is the core of the walkerOS event model. It's a
framework designed to capture interactions in a structured yet flexible manner.
Two primary components define each event: the 'entity' (what is involved within
an interaction) and the 'action' (what is done with the entity). This method
provides a comprehensive and clear understanding of user behaviors and
interactions.

One of the great things about walkerOS is the full **flexibility** of event
definitions. You can build your tracking based on your **business logic**
instead of trying to press your business logic into analytics specs.

We believe that tracking shouldn't sound like some abstract technical concept.
It should feel **natural** and everyone involved should immediately understand
it. Only when everyone understands what is being measured, there will be **fewer
misunderstandings, higher data quality**, and more actionable data in the
organization at the end of the day.

A walkerOS event consists of three components: a **trigger** (e.g. load), an
**entity** (e.g. page), and an **action** (e.g. view).

## Event Structure

Here's an example illustrating the structure and components of an event in
walkerOS. While keys are static, their content can be defined dynamically with
different value types.

```js
{
  event: 'promotion view', // Name as a combination of entity and action
  data: {
    // Arbitrary properties related to the entity
    name: 'Setting up tracking easily',
    interactive: false,
  },
  context: {
    // Provides additional information about the state during the event
    stage: ['learning', 1], // A logical funnel stage
    test: ['engagement', 0], // Key, [value, order]
  },
  globals: {
    // General properties that apply to every event
    language: 'en',
  },
  custom: {}, // Additional space for individual setups
  user: {
    // Contains user identifiers for different identification levels
    // Require consent and set manually for sessions building and cross-device
    id: 'us3r1d',
    device: 'c00k131d',
    session: 's3ss10n1d',
    // More user-related properties, see below
  },
  nested: [
    // All nested entities within the main entity
    { type: 'github', data: { repo: 'walkerOS' } },
  ],
  consent: { functional: true }, // Status of the granted consent state(s)
  id: '1647261462000-01b5e2-5', // Timestamp, group & count of the event
  trigger: 'visible', // Name of the trigger that fired
  entity: 'promotion', // The entity name involved in the event
  action: 'view', // The specific action performed on the entity
  timestamp: 1647261462000, // Time when the event fired
  timing: 3.14, // Duration how long it took to trigger this event
  group: '01b5e2', // Random identifier for all events during a run
  count: 2, // Incremental counter of the events in the same run
  version: {
    // Information about the used implementation setup
    source: 'X.X.X', // Semantic version of the used source
    tagging: 42, // A version number of the then-used tagging status
  },
  source: {
    // Details about the origin of the event
    type: 'web', // Source type of the event (also app, server, or custom one)
    id: 'https://github.com/elbwalker/walkerOS', // Source of the event's origin
    previous_id: 'https://www.elbwalker.com/', // Previous source (like referrer)
  },
};

```

This structure remains consistent across all interactions, whether the event is
a `page view`, `page read`, `product add`, or `session start` and
`order complete`. Event names are a combination of the entities involved
(_promotion_) and the action performed (_view_).

### Data Properties

Data properties describe the entity in more detail. Depending on the entity
(e.g. _product_, _order_, _article_) they can vary and provide specific insights
relevant to the interaction.

### Context

Context refers to the state or environment in which the event was triggered. It
could be as simple as a page position or as complex as the logical stage in a
user journey, like a shopping journey from inspiration to checkout stage.

### Globals

Globals describe the overall state influencing events or user behavior. These
might include the theme used, page type for web, or cart value.

### Custom

A reserved space for individual setups to comply with the defined structure, but
also to support custom requirements.

### User

There are recommended identifiers used for stitching together user journeys:
`id`, `device`, and `session`. This enables cross-device tracking or linking
sessions for a cohesive user journey. On a server-side setup, a temporarily
`hash` value is added. Any other user-related information can be added here. A
few values are recommended:

```ts
interface User extends Properties {
  // IDs
  id?: string; // User ID
  device?: string; // Typically a cookie or local storage ID
  session?: string; // Session ID
  hash?: string; // Temporary hash for server-side setups
  // User related
  userAgent?: string; // Full user agent string
  browser?: string; // Browser name
  browserVersion?: string; // Browser version
  deviceType?: string; // Type of device like, mobile, desktop, tablet
  language?: string; // User's language settings
  country?: string; // Country code
  region?: string; // Region code
  city?: string; // City name
  timezone?: string; // Timezone
  os?: string; // Operating system
  osVersion?: string; // Operating system version
  screenSize?: string; // Screen size
  ip?: string; // IP address
  internal?: boolean; // Internal user flag
}
```

### Consent

Consent captures the permissions granted by the user, which is crucial for
subsequent data processing and helpful to comply with privacy regulations.

### Source

The source is the origin of the event, including type (web, app, server),
specific site or component, and referrer information for basic journey
attribution.

## Principles

### Structured flexibility

The event model is made to fit every company's requirements while maintaining a
structured approach for easy access and interpretation.

### First-Party

With walkerOS data is collected directly and built into your code. This ensures
control over what, when, and where data is measured, enhancing data management
and privacy.

### Source of Truth

A single source of truth for data ensures comparability, manageability, and
minimizes implementation efforts, preventing data leaks or inaccuracies.

### Vendor-agnostic

The event model is designed to be resilient and flexible, allowing adaptability
to future legal or internal requirements without vendor lock-in.

### Industry-agnostic

The model supports diverse use cases beyond e-commerce, including media, (B2B)
SaaS, and more, ensuring versatility and comparability.

### Mapping

Mapping involves translating walkerOS events to the formats required by
different analytics tools. For example, a `product add` event in walkerOS can be
mapped to `add_to_cart` in GA4 or a corresponding event in another tool.
