---
path: globals
title: Why context matters in event tracking
description:
  Why context matters in event tracking and how global attributes can help.
authors: alexander
category: Product
tags:
  - Release
---

How context can help to better segment users

{/* truncate */}

It's commonly known that user journeys differ from each other and lead to
different user actions and goals, depending on different types of traffic, the
marketing campaigns we run etc. Based on common analytics software we're also
used to segment traffic maybe by its marketing source or demographic differences
of the users etc.

In short, we use context to better understand user behavior.

> One page view event may seem like the other but they can differ significantly
> from each other once you look at the page path.

- Captain Obvious

How about we go one step further and specify even more context to our events.
Are there differences between users with different language settings? It is
likely that someone who already has a product in their cart adds another
complimentary product as well. Is there a relation between the type of a page
and an overlay's performance?

**Context is the foundation of actionable analytics data.**

In most cases, the specifying information is somewhere visible to the user.
Whether it's a small badge number next to the cart icon or the used template
file. Then why don't we use the given context in analytics? What is obvious to a
user is completely missing in the database to be considered in the analysis
later. Getting this relevant information later is hard, it's much easier to be
measured right from the start. We can guess or train models to predict relations
and context. But why should we, when there is an easier way? Let's give the
context right at the beginning, which is right where the data is being captured.

## Launching elbglobals

We just released a new elb-attribute type, the `data-elbglobals`. Before the
first event gets triggered the walker collects all global properties that have
been defined with data-elbglobals. These properties will be added to all
following events available under the globals property of each event. If you want
to segment events by the login state of a user set
`data-elbglobals="user:loggedin"`.

```js
{
  "event": "product add",
  "globals": {
    "user": "loggedin",
    "pagetype": "product_detail"
  },
  ...
}
```

Another great information would be to specify the pagetype with
`data-elbglobals="pagetype:content"` or
`data-elbglobals="pagetype:product_detail"` to e.g. separate transactional shop
traffic from visitors who only want to get inspired. Or to understand their
relations. The possibilities are almost endless. Global attributes are different
from properties because as the name already says they apply to all events that
are being measured and they enrich all events regardless of the scope with
actionable context.
